<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="remove_connecting_rod">
    <title>Removing a Connecting Rod</title>
    <shortdesc>Procedure for removing a connecting rod from an engine when the babbitt bearing is
        worn or damaged.</shortdesc>

    <taskbody>
        <prereq>
            <p>Before beginning, ensure you have: <ul>
                    <li>Appropriate tools for engine disassembly</li>
                    <li>Clean workspace</li>
                    <li>Proper safety equipment</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </prereq>

        <context>
            <p>A connecting rod is a steel rod that links the piston to the crankshaft. When the
                babbitt bearing becomes worn or burns out due to lack of oil, the entire connecting
                rod may need replacement. This can be identified by a knocking sound in the
                engine.</p>
        </context>

        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Drain oil from the crank case</cmd>
                <info>Remove all oil to prevent spillage during disassembly.</info>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Remove the cylinder head</cmd>
                <info>Carefully detach the cylinder head to access internal engine
                    components.</info>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Remove the detachable plate on the bottom of the crank case</cmd>
                <info>This provides access to the lower portion of the engine's internal
                    mechanism.</info>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Disconnect the connecting rod from the crankshaft</cmd>
                <info>Carefully separate the connecting rod from its connection point on the
                    crankshaft.</info>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Remove the piston and rod through the top of the cylinder</cmd>
                <info>Carefully extract the entire piston and connecting rod assembly from the
                    cylinder.</info>
            </step>
        </steps>

        <result>
            <p>The connecting rod has been successfully removed from the engine, allowing for
                inspection, repair, or replacement.</p>
        </result>

        <postreq>
            <p>After removal: <ul>
                    <li>Inspect the connecting rod and babbitt bearing for damage</li>
                    <li>Clean all components thoroughly</li>
                    <li>Replace parts as necessary</li>
                    <li>Prepare for reassembly</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
