<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="steering_gear_tightening">
    <title>Tightening the Steering Gear</title> 

    <shortdesc>When steering becomes loose, with delayed response to wheel movement, several
        components need adjustment or replacement.</shortdesc>

    <taskbody>
        <prereq>
            <p>Before beginning maintenance, check for excessive play by grasping a front wheel by
                the spokes and jerking the front axle back and forth.</p>
        </prereq>
        <context>
            <p>Loose steering can be caused by wear in various components of the steering system.
                Regular inspection and maintenance of these components ensures safe vehicle
                operation.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Disconnect the two halves of the ball sockets at the lower steering post
                    end</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Inspect the ball arm for wear</cmd>
                <info>
                    <note>If the ball is badly worn, replace it with a new one instead of continuing
                        with adjustment.</note>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>File the socket surfaces until they fit snugly around the ball</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Tighten the ball caps at the steering gear connecting rod end using the same
                    procedure</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Check the spindle arm bolts for looseness</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Replace brass bushings if bolts are loose</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Inspect the pinions for wear if vehicle is 2-3 years old</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Check the brass internal gear beneath the steering wheel spider</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Replace worn components as necessary</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <result>
            <p>Proper adjustment and replacement of worn components will restore responsive steering
                control.</p>
        </result>
        <postreq>
            <p>Regularly inspect the front spring and front spring perches for excessive vibration,
                which may indicate the need for new bushings.</p>
            <p>Refer to the Lubrication Chart for ongoing maintenance requirements.</p>
        </postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
