<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="water_in_carburetor">
    <title>Water in the Carburetor</title>

    <shortdesc>Water contamination in the carburetor or gasoline tank can cause engine starting
        problems, misfiring, and stalling. Regular maintenance and proper draining procedures can
        prevent these issues.</shortdesc> 

    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>Effects of Water Contamination</title>
            <p>Even small amounts of water in the carburetor or gasoline tank can significantly
                impact engine performance. Due to water being heavier than gasoline, it settles at
                the bottom of the tank and accumulates in the sediment bulb along with other
                contaminants.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Prevention and Maintenance</title>
            <p>Since modern gasoline often contains impurities, particularly water, regular
                maintenance is essential. Frequent draining of the sediment bulb beneath the
                gasoline tank helps prevent water-related problems.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Cold Weather Considerations</title>
            <p>In cold conditions, accumulated water in the sediment bulb may freeze, blocking
                gasoline flow to the carburetor. To resolve this:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>Wrap a cloth around the sediment bulb</li>
                <li>Keep the cloth saturated with hot water</li>
                <li>Maintain this treatment briefly</li>
                <li>Drain the water completely</li>
            </ul>
            <note>This same hot water treatment can be applied if water freezes inside the
                carburetor itself.</note>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
